Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture we're going to be accessing an object's name in order to
do that.
We're going to have to use pointers.
Don't be scared.
We'll go through it step by step.
The first thing we will do is we are going to play with pointers.
That's the important thing.
Just getting our head around how they work.
And I'll throw a few extra bits in here as we go because we'll learn a little more about operator precedents
as well.
We'll be using get owner to find the components owner a actor star is a pointer to an actor.
Something to remember for when we're looking at the code in the moment and we're going to be using the
arrow operator to access members rather than the dots operator which we used to.
So far we'll be using gets name to find the object's name and the other thing that will crop up during
this is we will be exposed once again to include what you use.
We've mentioned it in the past but now we're going to have to use it.
Let's dive on over into v s code
OK.
Welcome over into V.S. Co.
The first thing I want to do here is just tidy up this.
We're not going to have this all the top one anymore.
We will have the one that outputs in yellow.
And I'm just gonna hijack that and I'll put something else in here later on.
Okay.
So our first example here we're going to use an F string.
It's something we can get members of.
So for instance when we were getting the length of something you can't do that with primitive types
I'll just show you that first of all.
So if we have an int 32 called number and we set to equal to whatever value when we go to the next line
down and go no dot there are no members of this primitive type.
However if we go for something a bit more complex like the F string class we can really start to have
some fun and see how it works.
So let's call this f string lock because it's something that we're locking to the console and we'll
set this equal to what should we set it to set it to just something simple like Hello.
So we know that we can print this out to the log.
Now if we wanted to we could just put within the log percentage s common log and it won't work just
yet because we would need the star operator.
And this is an overloaded operator so does something different.
This is the reason why I've chosen an F string because this is one of these examples where sometimes
in C++ things can get a bit messy.
The star of the asterisk is used for multiplication.
It's used for a pointer is used for D referencing.
And here it's being overloaded to do something different.
So if we go ahead and run the code here it would fail because we don't have our semicolon online 23
by otherwise this will just print out hello to the log.
Let's check that compile our code and of course whilst this is compiling I can open up the output log
and if there are any failures I can just read them straight from here rather than having to click over
here we will see.
It will say hello.
Here we go.
As a warning.
Down in the log.
Brilliant.
So we know that's working.
Let's stop that and go back to our code.
Right.
So we're talking about pointers here.
Now our pointer is simply the memory address of something.
So in order to create a pointer we would need to also give it what type it is.
Now it's not the type of the pointer is the type of the thing it's pointing to.
So in this particular example what we can do is it would be an F string once again because that's what
we are pointing to.
And then we would need the star.
Now it doesn't matter where the star goes.
Let's call this PCR logger pointer to our log.
It could go there.
It could go like basic like that.
It doesn't matter where this goes but we're going to respect unravels coding conventions and put it
next to the type so here we have a pointer called PCR log which is pointing to something that is an
F string.
We need to finish this off.
So it equals and remember that a pointer is a memory address so we're going to use the ampersand now
as part of a declaration the ampersand does mean a reference.
However when we're using it as part of an expression like we are doing here it means the address of
we're saying the address of where it's stored in memory of the log variable for a reference log.
Now this is brilliant.
We've created our first pointer.
Now let's go down a little.
What we can do here.
We have our log is access its members by using the dot operator.
Now with the dot operator what we can then pick out is the length we're familiar with that.
So there we go we've got something here that's being evaluated to an in 32 and it probably be six in
length.
We could print that out if we wanted to.
That's fine.
We've done that lots in the past.
But how do we access any members when it comes to those pointers.
OK.
So how does this work with pointers.
Well if we go pointer log and just go dots it's not going to do anything it doesn't mean anything that's
a pointer or PCR log.
It's not this log so it's not an F string it's a pointer.
So we would have to get the value that's out there by DB referencing and we did reference with the star
but then when we go dot nothing happens.
Why is that.
Well the referencing has a lower precedence than the dot operators the dot operator is trying to run
first and it won't work.
So in order to get around that we'd have to put parentheses around this.
So we did reference.
There we go.
Cleared.
And then when we go dot we gain access to the members where that pointer is pointing to.
Now that seems an awful syntax to keep typing and it is.
So there's another operator that you can use so you don't get into this model so we can go pointer log
and then the arrow is the dash and the right Chevron.
I got that right.
There we go.
And then we have access to the same members that we would do as above.
Really really useful.
So we use the dot operator when we're talking about those direct access to those members and we would
use the arrow when it's indirect when we're going via a pointer.
Now I've mentioned order of precedence.
Let's go and have a look at that okay.
This is a big long list.
I'll make sure that it's in your resources for you but you can see here the operator precedence of the
dots operator comes above that of the indirection or the D reference that we just used.
So that's why we had to put the parentheses around it.
And this is a really useful reference if you're ever wondering about what would happen first in your
code okay so the final thing I'd want to show you here is what happens with this when we have to.
The references and the moments if we were to go ahead and just do this which looks like with the referencing
but we're not.
That's an overloaded operator but this won't compile.
It will fail because it doesn't give our takes macro what it needs.
If we remove that star and let's say our code we weren't printing it out to a log so we didn't know
what it was doing.
Let's see what that comes up with an unreal rigorous says compile complete and roll when we press play
we get some gobbledygook.
That's because we're printing out a reference which is printing a memory address and whatever was in
that memory address is being converted to a string and it's complete garbage right.
And that doesn't work because we're simply going to the memory address where we've created PCR log.
Now if there had been a string there that would've made sense.
There wasn't a string there so it's come back with garbage.
If we put the single asterisk there that also won't work in this particular case we would have to have
two stars or two asterisks.
And I really wanted to show you this.
Just to highlight how difficult for a beginner it can be when you're reading this sort of stuff.
And by exposing yourself to its will make it much easier to do.
And when we do that what we are doing is we are D referencing and we're using the overloaded operator
next to one another which is confusing and that should be able to print out the string hello.
Let's just test that quickly and there we go we get Hello twice because our components on both objects
case and health that we've explored pointers and we've taken a deep breath.
The next thing we're going to do is get ready to go and get the name that this component is attached
to imprint that's out on the console part of that will be your challenge.
But the first thing we need to do is include what we use.
So the issue at the moment is if I just give you the challenge we've got not got the right include at
the top here.
So we need to hash include also completes working in our favor here.
Our look at that it spoils it for me.
Yes it's the game framework that we need forward slash actor header file.
I'm going to save that that in fact line five for the moment.
If you have already typed it I'm going to comment it out and then just bring it back in in a moment.
So I'm going to get rid of what we've got here for the moment.
Well I'm going to leave it there actually as reference material more than anything else.
And then I'll tie the up at the very end.
So that's there for your reference if necessary.
So if we want to get the owner of something as we said before we start typing gets this is a getter
gets owner comes up absolutely fine.
Then we include the parentheses and we can see here that it will return a pointer to a actor that it's
a pointer because we've got a actor which is the type and then we've got Star gets ONA.
Okay fair enough.
Now does that come up also when we're typing here.
Yes we can see it's fully qualified here as well.
You actor component gets ona now if we were to reach into that further and what we would have to do
is use the arrow operator because it's a pointer but then we would need to get name and nothing is coming
up when we do that.
However that's because we've not included what we need to use so we need to include the game framework
forward slash actor if I uncommon.
That's come back down here.
Start the arrow operator and start typing.
Here we go.
Get name will come up.
And that also needs our parentheses.
Boom done.
Not quite because it's time for your challenge and your challenge is to create a variable to store the
object's name and then output the name of the object to the console in your log.
And what should happen if successful is if you've got two objects both of the component in the scene
they will print out their name.
So perhaps use a bit more flavor in your log and say this component is attached to and then use your
format specified to make sure that the object's name is printed positively now and give that a go Okay
everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and print out all objects names to the log.
Okay so we can use what we've got here.
I'm gonna call it object name.
And we need to give it a type as well in the moment don't we.
In fact when we hover over this we can see what we get back.
So get name is returning and F string we know we need an F string so we can do that here.
So f String object name.
That's not how you spell f string.
So there we go.
Perfect so here we have an F string that we've called object name and is going to be sets to whatever
this slots is returning which will be the name of the object.
And what else can we do here.
Well we need to print it out to the lock so we can do a couple of things here.
We can obviously go you e log and then log temp com a warning because we want it coming out in yellow
and then of course the text macro.
Now this is where it can get a little bit interesting because I can type in here object name is format
specify s or I am attached to this object or whatever wording you've decided to use comma and then I
can pop in here object name save my file and I'll just check this is work and then I'll show you what
else you could have done Oh I'm not.
Let's not forget the asterisk or the star that's needed for the format specified right we're safe.
Let's go and compile okay.
And press play so we can see down here it says cube 2 and sphere 5.
And you may be thinking well hang on a minute I've only got cube and sphere in my scene but if we hover
over we see they've got an I.D. name of cube underscore.
So that's just how many instances unreal things it's had of these objects in the scene that are called
cube or called sphere.
We hover over a sphere we will see a similar thing.
Okay so what else could we have done there.
Well let's go back to our code now if you wanted to use object name in several places.
That's fine storing as a variable like that would get us there.
The other thing that we could do here is not type that and instead here we would need to use our overloaded
operator as before and go get ONA the arrow operator followed by gets name.
Oh I've forgotten it wasn't also filling there because I forgot the brackets on the first one there.
Do I need anything else.
Nope.
Let's save that and see what happens with that complete.
Let's go ahead and press play.
Excellent.
And that works as well.
So there are just two different ways that you could have written your code there.
One obviously only takes up one line but it doesn't allow us to use object name again in our code.
Now I'm going to leave both there for the moment and I'm going to remove this extra bit of code that
I had put there but that is a great start we now know the objects that we are playing with and that
means we can probably get some other things like their transform and when we do that that will mean
we'll be able to calculate the distance from us to another object which means that we can have a radius
around us or even better straight from the center of where we're looking ensuring that we can pick up
objects only within a certain distance.
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you've enjoyed it.
I really have.
And I'll see you all in the next one.